Add post: Day 10 - Factory (#937)
scalacenter/scala-advent-of-code: docs/2025/puzzles/day10.md

https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/10

## Solution Summary

The input includes multiple lines, each of them can be handled independently, the result is the sum from the output of each scenario.

> For part 1, I applied the [Breadth-first Search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search) algorithm (BFS), BFS allows finding the shorest-path from a state to another when every transition has the same cost, this was quicky to implement and produced the correct output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For part 1, I applied the [Breadth-first Search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search) algorithm (BFS), BFS allows finding the shortest-path from a state to another when every transition has the same cost, this was quick to implement and produced the correct output.
```

> For part 2, BFS wasn't adequate due to the number of potential states, there is an alternative [Divide-and-conquer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divide-and-conquer_algorithm) approach which is fast enough.

Reviewer: This isn't really divide and conquer, two sub-problems are not generated. Per some authors cited in paragraph 5 of that wikipedia article, it's really decrease and conquer.

     }
```

This resolved the example input but was too slow with the actual test scenarios, I tried a few heuristics to trim unnecessary paths, tried `DFS` with prunning, `A*`, and, I was close to implement a [bidirectional BFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bidirectional_search).

Eventually, I got an idea from [reddit](https://old.reddit.com/r/adventofcode/comments/1pk87hl/2025_day_10_part_2_bifurcate_your_way_to_victory/) about using a [Divide-and-conquer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divide-and-conquer_algorithm) approach instead which goes like this, if the path from `0` to `T` takes `N` steps, the path from `0` to `2T` takes `2N` steps, with this:

- We can try to get convert the `joltage` into even numbers.
- Resolve `joltage / 2`.
- The answer for the current step would be `f(joltage / 2)*2 + currentCost`.
- There are many overlaping sub-problems but we can use a cache to avoid unnecessary recomputation.

**DISCLAIMER** I have no proof that this handles every possible scenario but with the test cases I prepared, the BFS result leads to the same from this, and, the result has been accepted by Advent of Code.

> Let's start by defining how to press the buttons to get `` from the alternatives to resolve part 1, I mentioned that applying a button more than once is not necessary because it invalidates the previous action, in this case with integer values, we can claim the same but it is not about the value itself but the parity.

Reviewer: I don't understand:
> how to press the buttons to get `` from the alternatives

> For example, applying a buton `0, 3` to joltages `3, 4, 5, 6` leads to joltates `2, 4, 4, 6` (all even) but applying the same button again will revert the parity back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, applying a button `0, 3` to joltages `3, 4, 5, 6` leads to jolgates `2, 4, 4, 6` (all even) but applying the same button again will revert the parity back.
```
